[doorbell rings repeatedly]
[LANDLADY]
Hello? I know you're in there!
[knocking]
[TEPPEI]
Ugh! Go away!
[LANDLADY] The other
tenants have complained
about the smell
coming from your unit!
[TEPPEI]
Hey, I said piss off.
What the hell
do you want me to do?
Stop making up
excuses to rag on me,
and mind your own
goddamn business!
You nosy dumb‐ass bitch!
[SATOKO]
Wow, what a feast.
That's a super fancy‐looking
spread you have
over there, Mion!
[RIKA] It's packed with
a ton of different goodies!
What a treat!
[MION]
I know, right?
The mayor and
his friends came by
for drinks and food last night.
So, I stole a
few of their leftovers.
[chuckles]
I guess that's why
your lunch seems to be
mostly snack‐type stuff, then.
Go figure.
I should've known
you were the type of girl
who could whip up table scraps
into something this delicious.
What you brought for lunch today
looks really tasty too, Rena!
[RENA]
Thanks.
It's not as nice as Mion's,
but it's kinda cute, right?
[MION]
C'mon, you cook with love.
My grub doesn't measure up
to yours at all!
We should strive to learn from
the brilliant examples they set.
[KEIICHI]
Huh...
So, what did you guys
bring to eat?
[RIKA]
Ta‐dah!
[KEIICHI]
Whoa!
[SATOKO laughs]
We received some excellent meat
from a neighbor of ours.
[KEIICHI] I thought it'd
end up protein heavy,
but it's actually
pretty well‐balanced!
Someday you are going
to make your husband
a very happy man, Rika!
I'll maintain a tight grip on
both his heart and his stomach.
[KEIICHI sighs]
Satoko, on the other hand...
What is that supposed to mean?
Maybe I'm not quite
as skilled as Rika is,
but I can still hold
my own in the kitchen!
[KEIICHI]
Ok.
Well, then, can you
tell me the difference
between broccoli
and cauliflower?
That's easy.
Broccoli is green, obviously.
Wait, that's wrong.
The yellow one is... Um...
[KEIICHI] Go on.
What color is broccoli again?
[cries]
You're being such a meanie!
If you're gonna tease
her about her skills,
then you had better
be a brilliant chef, Kei.
Uh. Well, I know I definitely
have to be better at cooking
than Satoko,
even if it's just her.
Excuse me?
Yeah?
In that case,
why don't you try showing us
how you throw down
at lunchtime tomorrow?
No cheating.
Don't even think about having
someone else cook for you!
[SATOKO]
Oh my!
That sounds like a
worthwhile challenge to me.
Think you're up for it?
Okay then, it's official!
I'm gonna bring a lunch that'll
knock your damn socks off!
This is so exciting!
I can't wait to see
what you both bring!
[MOEKO]
"Dear Keiichi.
Your father and I had
to leave for Tokyo.
Something urgent
came up at work.
We're gone for
the next few days.
So, now's your chance to learn
how to fend for yourself!"
[KEIICHI] Great! Of all
the times, why now?
Fine, here we go!
I can manage on my own!
Time to cook up a storm, baby!
What am I gonna do?
This one.
Any idiot can
fry things in a pan!
[KEIICHI]
Next!
"Add a teaspoon of oil"?
The heck is a teaspoon?
There!
Yeah! Now that's how it's done!
[SATOKO] Have you
completely lost your mind?
[KEIICHI groans]
Huh?
Satoko? Rika?
Huh. What're you two doing here?
This is trespassing!
Don't accuse us of
committing a crime
while you're over
here playing arsonist!
[KEIICHI]
No way.
I was about
to burn my house down?
[SATOKO] That's exactly
what would've happened!
[RIKA] If we weren't
passing by just now,
your house would be like "fwoom"
with sirens going "woo woo"!
This is humiliating.
There, there Keiichi.
It's okay.
[SATOKO]
I should've known.
Here I was wondering
if you'd be able to back up
all that bragging.
[sighs]
All right. Please step
aside, Keiichi.
What now?
Just be quiet and wait on
the sofa like a good boy, okay?
[SATOKO sighs]
What is it about men that makes
them so careless sometimes?
Hey. If you have time
to sit around doing nothing,
then you might
as well set the table!
[KEIICHI]
I'm on it.
[RIKA]
It's almost time for us to eat.
I'm glad we're having
dinner together like this.
Ni‐pah!
At least one of you
two's in a good mood.
Wish the other one
wasn't so mad.
[RIKA]
She's not.
You've got it mixed up.
Satoko's not mad.
Actually, she's having a
lot of fun doing this for you.
[SATOKO] Honestly.
Who messes up a stir‐fry?
[KEIICHI]
Fun, eh. I dunno.
[RIKA]
This is what she was like
back when she was
around her nii‐nii.
Her what?
[RIKA]
Her nii‐nii.
It's a nickname.
That's what Satoko calls
her big brother, Satoshi.
Huh, I didn't know she had one.
First time I've heard about it.
Being with Satoshi
made her happy like this.
She knew she could
always depend on him
when she needed it the most.
Hold on,
what do you mean "knew"?
Is he gone?
[SATOKO]
Food's on the table!
Keiichi.
Where do you guys
keep your rice paddle?
There. Dinner is served!
Boy, am I hungry!
Thanks for cooking, Satoko!
[KEIICHI]
This rice is perfectly fluffy.
The miso soup's great, too!
[laughs]
Someone's had a change of heart!
[KEIICHI]
Yep.
I underestimated you.
You win, hands down.
Uh, that's really nice of you.
But it's nothing
all that extravagant.
[SATOKO]
The only thing I made
from scratch were
the rice and soup.
All of the side dishes
came straight from the can.
[KEIICHI] Listen,
there's nothing wrong with that.
This is still an amazing meal!
It's not the most impressive
thing I've ever made,
but as long as you
admit that I know
what I'm doing in the kitchen,
I guess it'll do for tonight.
This is so great.
It reminds me of the
times we'd eat dinner
with Satoshi and how
much fun we would have.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
Thinking about
that makes me wonder
what he's doing right now.
Uh! I should mention
that Satoshi is my nii‐nii.
Sorry.
I mean he's my big brother!
One day he decided to run away
from home even though he doesn't
have a single clue about how
to take care of himself!
He left?
Yeah, it's been a while now.
But I'm positive he'll
come back home eventually.
[SATOKO]
Hmm?
Keiichi?
I can hardly believe it,
but sometimes you
can be real mature.
No, I've always been this way,
thank you very much!
[KEIICHI] I bet you
miss your nii‐nii, huh?
Look. I didn't call
him anything like that.
He's just my
big brother, all right?
Except you did.
Totally.
No. That's not true.
I'd never call my nii‐nii
something like nii‐nii!
[KEIICHI]
Thanks for the chow.
[RIKA]
If it weren't for Satoko,
your tummy would've
kept you wide awake
going all "grumble grumble"!
[SATOKO]
You're lucky we stopped by.
Oh yeah.
Don't forget to brush
your teeth before you go to bed!
Thanks for the reminder.
Okay, enjoy the rest
of your evening!
[KEIICHI]
Hmm?
What, did you forget something?
[RIKA]
Congratulations.
You earned an A‐plus today!
You get a huge
round of applause!
Why?
I don't remember doing
anything worth praising.
Tonight, you gave Satoko
the next best thing
to a homecoming
for her big brother,
and I bet that must've
made her really happy!
I can't fill the shoes
that Satoshi left behind,
but you've got a
fighting chance Keiichi.
[SATOKO]
Rika! Enough lollygagging.
Let's go!
[RIKA]
All right. I'm off, then.
[KEIICHI]
Mm. Yeah.
[SATOKO]
Here's a tip.
Most stores have special sales
for a limited time.
If you wait long
enough you can score pork
for your stir fry at half price!
[KEIICHI]
If we're looking to save,
why not get this
family pack instead?
You're not feeding
a family, are you?
You gotta be kidding me.
Talk about a lack of
financial management skills.
No wonder you came crawling
on your hands
and knees for my help!
[KEIICHI] I sorta like
shopping for ingredients.
Can't wait to get
started on dinner.
[SATOKO] It's just one
of the many wonderful steps
in the meal preparation process.
The best part will be sitting
down to eat the results, though!
[KEIICHI]
Yup!
Especially since you're the one
who's gonna be
making it, Satoko.
Huh. Oh. Well, obviously.
I'm glad you're
looking forward to it!
[KEIICHI]
Looking good!
Now this is the type of
stir‐fry I was thinking of!
It's phenomenal!
Hold on.
Did you remember
to wash your hands?
[KEIICHI]
Can't I do it once I'm done?
That isn't how it works!
You should always clean
thoroughly before dinner!
Fine.
Huh?
What?
[KEIICHI screams]
[SATOKO chortles]
Gotcha.
I had a feeling
you'd fall for that one!
[KEIICHI]
Ugh. Why, you little...
Can't believe you
pulled one over on me.
What are you smiling for?
[KEIICHI]
Oh.
I don't have
any siblings, so, uh,
to be honest, hanging out with
you like this is kind of nice.
Your mom and dad won't be around
to cook for you
anytime soon, correct?
So, if you need me to,
then I could‐‐
[phone rings]
[KEIICHI]
Mom.
What's up?
[MOEKO] We finished
all our work here earlier
than we had planned.
So, we'll be back home with
you by tomorrow morning.
[KEIICHI]
Huh? Tomorrow?
Good to know.
Hey, I'm home.
[MOEKO]
Great timing.
Rena just called you!
[KEIICHI]
Hmm?
Is something up?
Do we have club today?
[RENA]
It's an emergency!
We need your help
winning a fight.
Please hurry!
[KEIICHI]
Seriously?
They've got Satoko
backed into a corner.
And now she's in trouble!
Oh no. Don't you worry.
I'll be right there!
I'm coming, Satoko!
Lemme at 'em, I'll beat them
all to a bloody pulp!
What the‐?
Over here, Keiichi.
It's gonna be okay, Satoko.
Someone's here to save the day!
Huh?
[RENA]
Hurry up, get in there already!
Hey, um, Keiichi.
Would you mind if I asked
you something? Can I?
Can I?
Why did you make it sound
like there was a fight
if what you meant was baseball?
Don't even need
to run the bases!
[laughs]
Hooray, we won!
Why did you even
bother calling me?
[KAMEDA]
Damn it all!
That's the ballgame.
Now, you remember
our deal, right?
Of course, how could I forget.
Like I promised, I'll throw us
a big victory barbecue tomorrow.
All right.
And you had better
buy us the fancy stuff.
Don't try to skimp out on us
with too many vegetables,
or you'll regret it!
There, there Irie.
It's okay.
But I feel bad
for your poor wallet.
At least we won, huh?
[RENA] Aww!
This meat is out of this world!
[SATOKO]
Exactly how it should be.
Ordinary cuts of third‐rate
beef would be a meager prize
for the absolute miracle
I pulled off yesterday!
[MION]
You've got a point there.
That incredible
home run won us the game.
Wow, you're a
natural athlete, Satoko!
Sure are.
And not only that,
but clearly one of the
best of our generation!
[laughs]
Cut it out,
you're going to make me blush!
[IRIE] Having fun?
Because they sure are.
[KEIICHI]
Hmm?
Watching that
little slugger laugh
and play just lifts
your soul, doesn't it?
You are?
[IRIE]
Pardon me.
I'm Irie, but
everyone calls me Coach.
[KEIICHI]
Uh.
Nice to meet you.
It seems like you really care
about Satoko, huh, Coach?
[IRIE] Yes, that's correct.
She's the best.
And in the future,
when she's all grown up,
I'm sure she'll
be an excellent wife.
Wait, what?
Oh my.
I hadn't considered
you might be a rival suitor.
Well, this is awkward.
[laughs]
[IRIE]
It's a shame, though.
Her brother Satoshi used
to play baseball with us too,
but he stopped showing up.
Ah...
Sounds pretty rough.
And now,
the Hinamizawa Fighters
just aren't the same.
It's been about a year now
since he left the village.
Do you know why he left?
A lot of things happened.
Awful things.
It started right
around this time.
It was about three years back.
Their parents were
in a terrible accident‐‐
the kind no one sees coming.
[KEIICHI]
Accident?
[IRIE]
Indeed.
While they were on vacation,
they fell from
an observation deck.
So sad.
It's just her now.
She lives with Miss Furude,
who also lost her parents,
and they support
each other as best they can.
With all that's happened,
I've given serious
thought to adopting her.
[KEIICHI]
Huh?
[IRIE] But there're legal
matters to deal with.
Issues that would
prevent me from helping
the poor girl find
a proper home.
It's an unfortunate situation.
I suspect my silly dream
of hearing her call me papa
won't be happening anytime soon.
[sighs]
The only thing
I wish is for that smile
to never leave her face.
[KEIICHI]
Me too.
I'm glad we can
agree on that, Maebara.
Then indulge me for a moment.
Promise you'll never do
anything to make her cry.
Uh.
Yeah. You can count on me.
Hypothetically speaking.
If you did adopt her,
what would that be like?
[IRIE] Hmm... That's a
difficult question to answer.
[SHION]
Let's see.
You'd get her
to call you "Master"
and train her to be
your personal maid.
Hey. Where'd that
idea come from?
Easy.
It's not like I was
the one who said that!
[SHION]
On top of that,
you'd even have her wear
the maid uniform to go with it.
Huh, the frilly ones with lace.
Honestly,
that would be adorable.
[SHION]
Hear that. You said it yourself!
It's Shion!
Hi! Well, gotta run!
[KEIICHI]
You! Hold it right there.
Why are you snooping around?
Believe it or not.
You're looking
at the team manager
of the Hinamizawa Fighters!
I didn't know that.
Wait, then why didn't
I see you at the game?
That's because
I'm a ghost manager
who does her job
from the shadows.
Tee hee!
But I'm sure it would have
been an even better time
had you been there
on the bench with us.
We'd all love to see you
cheering us on at the next one!
Sure. I'll think about it.
By the way, before I forget!
I heard that promise you made,
so you should count me in too!
You talking about
the one I made for Satoko?
[SHION] Yep. After all,
I'm practically her big sister!
[KEIICHI]
Huh?
[SHION]
It's me. Your nee‐nee Shion!
[SATOKO] Hey,
would you mind letting me go?
When I see moments like these,
I wish they could last forever.
[KEIICHI]
Rika.
Mii?
You seen Satoko around?
I think she left early to go
and get groceries for dinner.
[KEIICHI]
Did she?
That's convenient.
It must be nice
to ditch clean‐up duty!
Satoko is really clever
and can think on her feet.
Unlike you, Keiichi.
Ni‐pah!
[BOY E] The Watanagashi
festival's happening next week.
[BOY B]
Yeah.
Think Lord Oyashiro
will curse someone?
[gasps]
He got Satoshi last time.
I hope we'll be safe this year.
[RENA]
The rainy season was so short,
it feels like
summer got here early!
[MION]
Good riddance.
It would suck if it
rained during Watanagashi.
Hey. Is something the matter?
[KEIICHI]
Listen.
Can I ask you guys
about Satoko's brother?
[MION]
Uh. Y'mean. Like Satoshi.
Uh. A year ago he...
he transferred!
He transferred? Or was it...
Did it have something to do
with Oyashiro's curse?
[MION]
Oh, that's right!
I said I'd lend you
some manga, didn't I?
Wanna come over?
Wait, but you never mentioned‐‐
Oh. That's right.
Yeah, I remember now.
In that case,
I'm gonna head home.
[MION]
See you tomorrow!
[RENA]
Yup. See you later.
[MION] Tell me, when it
comes to Satoko's family,
how much do you know?
[KEIICHI] I know her mom
and dad died in an accident
and that her brother
ran away from home.
[MION] I guess nobody
told you that her parents
were on the other side when we
were protesting the dam project.
[KEIICHI]
I thought that everyone here was
supposedly against anything
like that happening.
Not quite.
The government couldn't start
building till we moved out.
They were planning to
pay bribes for us to leave,
which some liked.
Satoko's folks led the
pro‐construction crowd.
On the day of the festival,
her parents ended
up passing away.
Which is the part
you heard about.
Then, rumors spread
that they died
because Lord Oyashiro
had cursed them.
They also said it's
why Satoshi disappeared.
In any case,
between her trauma and those
stories about the curse,
she doesn't need
to hear anything
that'll remind her
about what happened.
It's a lot. So,
we avoid mentioning it.
For Satoko's sake.
[MION] You understand where
we're coming from, right?
Uh‐huh.
I'm sorry.
I shoulda been a little
more tactful back there.
Anyway, I'm just grateful
that Satoko gets to live
a peaceful life
with Rika for now.
Yeah, me too. For now.
What the hell
are you lookin' at?
[GARDENER]
Uh. Nothing!
[TEPPEI]
C'mon, Satoko. Get inside.
Okay. Uncle Teppei.
[RIKA] Next time:
Tataridamashi‐hen, Part Two.